---
layout: post
title: USG Investment in Nokia & Ericsson is a Bad Idea
categories: Regulatory/Policy
comments_id: 14
---

Over the last several months, numerous reports have surfaced with respect to the U.S. Government’s (“USG”) possible investment in communication equipment vendors NOKIA and Ericsson as a means to combat Huawei and its global presence.

Since May 2019, when the USG placed Huawei on its “Entity List” for export control, it has aggressively pursued every legal means to remove existing Huawei equipment from its communication networks while also banning future deployments.  It also has been actively lobbying its allies to follow suit on the grounds of the overarching and overused term of national security.  The US’ latest volley of attempts comes from government statements that the USG could directly invest in or purchase Huawei’s competitors as a means to bolster their capabilities in effort to offer U.S. carriers’ an alternative.

As a case to point, the US Attorney General William Barr, has gone on public record affirming the USG’s efforts to invest in Huawei’s competitors by [saying](https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/attorney-general-william-p-barr-delivers-keynote-address-department-justices-china) that the USG and/or a leading US tech firm should buy all or part of one of Ericsson or Nokia in order to fill the vacuum in the availability of trusted vendors in the global communications market.  Also, in a related report, the US Secretary of Defense Mark Esper told attendees at the Munich Security Conference that “America was working with vendors like Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and beyond to develop alternative 5G technologies.”  Specifics were not provided.  But, obviously, not everyone agrees with the USG positions.

LightReading recently [reported](https://www.lightreading.com/security/atandt-ceo-says-us-govt-investment-into-nokia-ericsson-is-a-bad-idea/d/d-id/757371?itc=lrnewsletter_lrdaily&utm_source=lrnewsletter_lrdaily&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=02072020) that AT&T’s CEO Stephenson and others have said that USG’s investment in Huawei’s rivals was a bad idea noting that governments have had a bad track-record investing in public and private companies.  Instead, Stephenson and others, believe there’s a better way for the US to tackle the situation and is supporting an alternative approach to Huawei.  An approach which, if successful, in all likelihood will also cause a bifurcated industry between CHINA and the USA.

Recently, White House Economic Adviser Larry Kudlow issued a plan calling for the USG to invest into developing software for 5G (not in purchasing rival companies) by US-based companies and have claimed AT&T, Dell, Microsoft and others support the proposal.  As [reported](https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/5/21124888/us-5g-huawei-white-house-trump-china-alternative-telecom-standard), "[t]he plan would build on efforts by some US telecom and technology companies to agree on common engineering standards that would allow 5G software developers to run code atop machines that come from nearly any hardware manufacturer. That would reduce, if not eliminate, reliance on Huawei equipment," said by Larry Kudlow.  Kudlow also commented that “[t]he big-picture concept is to have all of the US 5G architecture and infrastructure done by American firms, principally.”  News of the plan was initially reported by the [Wall Street Journal](https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-pushing-effort-to-develop-5g-alternative-to-huawei-11580831592?mod=breakingnews).  A subscription is required to access the full article.

To help drive the effort, a group of US Senators led by Senator Mark Warner, is [proposing](https://www.warner.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/2020/1/national-security-senators-introduce-bipartisan-legislation-to-develop-5g-alternatives-to-huawei) the US provide more than $1 billion “to invest in Western-based alternatives to Chinese equipment providers Huawei and ZTE.”  Under his proposal, the Federal Communications Commission would funnel at least $750 million into O-RAN technologies and the US would set up a $500 million Multilateral Telecommunications Security Fund to speed up "the adoption of trusted and secure equipment globally."  Funds would be available to “foreign partners”.  Warner is also calling for the increase in US leadership in international standards organizations by encouraging greater US participation.  Increasing US involvement in SSOs has been a common theme since this all begun.

FCC Chairman Pai has also [announced](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-362593A1.pdf) that the agency will hold a Forum on 5G Virtualized Radio Access Networks on March 26, 2020.  The purpose of the forum is to convene experts “at the forefront of the development and deployment of interoperable, standards-based, virtualized radio access networks…  to discuss this paradigm-shifting approach to 5G network deployment.”  Chairman Pai is quoted in the release announcing the forum saying that one way to advance the priority of promoting U.S. leadership in 5G “is through the development and deployment of more secure, cost-effective 5G network components. Virtualized radio access networks could help us do that.”  Details on the agenda and speakers will be announced at a later date.

Based on USG actions over the past year and its relentless attacks on Huawei, intentions appear clear. Yet, recent tweets from the U.S. President have also suggested that people may be overreacting saying that people are getting carried away with using “a fake term of national security.”   The saga will likely continue as these various efforts progress.
