---
layout: post
title: The Dicing Up of 5.9GHz
categories: Regulatory/Policy
comments_id: 8
---

At its December 12th Open meeting, the FCC took its next step, with or without the Department of Transportation (“DOT”) consent, to chop-up the 75 megahertz 5.9GHz band and reassign its use for more unlicensed devices and use of a specific technology called Cellular-V2X (“C-V2X”).  Claiming the actions taken by the Commission aim to meet growing consumer needs, the steps nonetheless have the potential effect of setting aside nearly 20 years of work undertaken by the DOT and certain automotive companies to deploy an Intelligence Transportation System (“ITS”) using Dedicated Short-Range Communications (“DSRC”).

With the FCC’s Commissioners vote to approve the release of its [“Use of the 5.850-5.925 GHz Band,”](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/FCC-19-129A1.pdf) Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), the FCC intends to split the current 5.9GHz band into two if not three different bands. Namely, the NPRM proposes to: 1) repurpose the lower 45 megahertz of the band (5850 - 5895 MHz) for unlicensed operations (e.g., Wi-Fi); 2) revise the current ITS rules to permit C-V2X operations in the upper 20 megahertz of the band (5905-5925 MHz); and 3) to either retain the remaining 10 megahertz (5895-5905 MHz) for DSRC systems or assign it to C-V2X.  The NPRM also request input on how DSRC incumbents would transition their operations out of some or all of the 5.9 GHz band if the proposals are adopted.

The 5G Automotive Association (5GAA), comprised of leading ICT and automotive industry companies, has been aggressively lobbying the FCC, DOT and Congress for the past 18 months to permit use of the C-V2X in the 5.9GHz. Their efforts apparently have been successful.  Prior to the FCC’s release of the NPRM, FORD Motors, a loud advocate for the technology and member of the 5GAA, in fact announced that it will begin deploying C-V2X in 2022, with all its new vehicles supporting the technology within a few years.

Unlicensed advocates also should have plenty of reasons to be thankful for the FCC’s actions; 45 million of them in fact.  In additional to the 1200 megahertz of new spectrum proposed by the FCC in the 6 GHz band for unlicensed use, the FCC has now offered-up an additional 45 megahertz in the 5GHz band with an aim to make available a contiguous 160-megahertz channel in the band.  In comparison, the mobile industry has access to zero hertz of licensed mid-band spectrum above 3 GHz and is only slated to gain access to 70 megahertz of licensed spectrum in the 3.5 GHz band next year.  Today, not counting the additional spectrum to be made available, the unlicensed community has access to nearly 650 megahertz in the same frequency range.  Given this imbalance and knowing of the lack of mid-band spectrum for 5G, the mobile industry is pushing policymakers to take a refreshed look at its spectrum strategy.

As for the outcome of DSRC and the 20 plus years of work to develop, validate and test its reliability, as well as the millions of dollars invested in the technology and its present-day deployments, it may all end-up on the cutting room floor or, under this NPRM’s best case, relegated to 10MHz of spectrum.  The final outcome of the band will take some time as the process will likely take months to sort through all the expected comments to the proposal.  In the interim, what happens to the efforts recently launched by the IEEE to develop the [next evolution](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8723326) of DSRC is yet be determined.
