---
layout: post
title: U.S. Releases AI Guidelines
categories: Regulatory/Policy
comments_id: 9
---

In Last February 2019, [Executive Order 13859](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2019/02/14/2019-02544/maintaining-american-leadership-in-artificial-intelligence), “Maintaining American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence” was released in effort to spur U.S. investment in Artificial Intelligence (AI).  Since then, federal agencies have been working towards the objectives and goals outlined within the Order to include the release of guidelines to advise on regulatory requirements.  As outlined in the Order, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in coordination with the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), the Domestic Policy Council (DPC), and the National Economic Council (NEC), was charged with providing guidance to federal agencies regarding the review and release of regulatory and nonregulatory requirements that aim to reduce barriers to the development and adoption of AI technologies.

In the released draft [Memorandum](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Draft-OMB-Memo-on-Regulation-of-AI-1-7-19.pdf), Guidance for Regulation of Artificial Intelligence Applications, OMB and team have outlined 10 guiding principles for agencies to consider when setting policies and/or regulations around AI.  As typical of the U.S. efforts to promote market-based regulations, in sum, the guidance emphasized the need for a light-touch regulatory approach.  More precisely, as noted in the guidelines “…federal agencies must avoid regulatory or non-regulatory actions that needlessly hamper AI innovation and growth. Where permitted by law, when deciding whether and how to regulate in an area that may affect AI applications, agencies should assess the effect of the potential regulation on AI innovation and growth. Agencies must avoid a precautionary approach that holds AI systems to such an impossibly high standard that society cannot enjoy their benefits.”

Michael Kratsios, the United States CTO, also recently [blogged](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/ai-that-reflects-american-values/) about the release in which he stated that the new principles intend to promote the development of trustworthy AI and encourages regulators to consider fairness, transparency, safety, and security in their proceedings. “Agencies should also pursue verifiable, objective evidence for their policy decisions, basing technical and policy decisions on the best possible scientific evidence”, he continued.
