---
layout: post
title:  Market Insights 2020
categories: Regulatory
comments_id: 1
excerpt: In graphic design, a pull quote (also known as a lift-out pull quote) is a key phrase, quotation, or excerpt that has been pulled from an article and used as a page layout graphic element, serving to entice readers into the article or to highlight a key topic.
---

#Examples of How AI is Being Used in the COVID-19 Pandemic
Contributor: John Strassner

Generic COVID-19 Stories
	Mike Pompeo issues a statement saying that the US is concerned by the threat of cyber-attacks against the Czech Republic’s healthcare sector.

	A federal judge in Florida ordered the leaders of a self-described church to cease selling a bleaching agent it falsely claims will treat and prevent COVID-19.

AI Related COVID-19 Uses

The following is a collection of resources that demonstrate how AI is being used during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Google Protecting Against Cyberthreats

A dramatic rise in different types of attacks has been reported during this crisis. Chief among these threats is phishing (an attempt to obtain sensitive and/or personal information from one entity by email, text, phone, or other similar means by another entity posing as a legitimate source). These attacks have targeted both the innocent public as well as health organizations.

Google reported that Gmail blocks more than 100 million phishing emails per day. During the week of 4/5 – 4/11, over 18 million malware and phishing emails related to COVID-19 were blocked, along with over 240 million COVID-19 related daily spam messages. Google is handling these astounding rates using machine learning tools that augment and further inspect analysis by traditional malware scanning software. For example, machine learning found malware deeply embedded in emails that were trying to impersonate the World Health Organization (who.int). Google worked with WHO to ensure that DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting, and Conformance) was better implemented. Other attacks are been found embedded in URLs, various types of documents (e.g., Word and Excel), as well as the typical .png and .jpg files. The set of AI tools also aid in implementing sandboxes to protect against zero-day threats.

A link to Google’s advanced phishing and malware protection page is here

A link to Google’s security sandbox is here

Additional examples, information and links are available here….


#Stanford Expert on Herd Immunity & Social Distancing
Contributor: Wael Diab

The Guardian recently reported on herd immunity and social distancing. It is based on an interview with a Stanford faculty member. The key messages are that based on the limited initial data, California is not yet close to herd immunity. On the other hand, while social distancing may be needed in some form for a while, there may be ways to relax it from where we are today. Read the article here.

Comcast Report on Network Readiness
Contributor: Wael Diab

Comcast has issued a report related to network traffic impact because of COVID-19.  The report covers their network in response to what has been going on. 

According to the report, Comcast is seeing an “unprecedented shift in network usage” while also reporting that “traffic is beginning to plateau in most places including early work-from-home markets like Seattle and California.” 

WHO, IBM, Microsoft Launch Blockchain Hub to Track COVID-19
Contributor: Chuck Adams

The World Health Organization has teamed up with tech giants IBM, Oracle, and Microsoft, as well as decentralized platform Hacera, to create an open-data blockchain hub that lets people check whether they have been near anyone who’s been infected with COVID-19. 

The project, called MiPasa, is based on enterprise-grade blockchain Hyperledger Fabric. It comprises various analytics tools and data sources that help citizens and public health officials detect coronavirus infection hotspots.  It uses data analytics and privacy tools “that were previously only available to elite financial institutions,”

Given its inherent immutability, blockchain technology is a popular choice for projects creating verifiable databases—that information integrity is sustained is especially important when lives are at stake.  Read the related story here

#AT&T Takes A Big Hit from COVID-19
Contributor: Timothy Jeffries

In a AT&T recent Investor Briefing, the major wireless carrier reported a $605 million hit to Q1 revenue and $433 million to EBITDA and have stated Q2 will likely see the “full effect” of the pandemic.  AT&T noted that bad debt, cutting some customers a break on payments and production shutdown costs has meant lower earnings. Overall, the carrier reported revenues were down 2.6% to $34.2 billion, year over year due to declines in Entertainment Group, wireless equipment and Business Wireline.

With the downturn and challenges, the carrier continues to target nationwide 5G deployment this summer but will most certainly face construc¬tion and permitting delays by state and local officials due to COVID-19.

New Street’s Jonathan Chaplin emailed investors after the briefing noting that the report is a sign of what’s to come among the major communications players. “Wireless and broadband are resilient, while pay-tv and media have been hit hard,” the analyst wrote. “The prognosis for the rest of the year is grim: some of the benefits in Wireless will likely unwind, while revenue trends and margins in Entertainment and Warner Media will likely get worse.”
