---
layout: post
title: Secure 5G and Beyond Becomes Law
categories: Regulatory & Policy
---

Originally introduced in the U.S. Senate, [S.893, Secure 5G and Beyond Act of 2020](https://www.congress.gov/116/plaws/publ129/PLAW-116publ129.pdf) became law in late March 2020, less than one year after its introduction gaining strong bipartisan support.  

In the law, Congress calls on the Administrative to “develop a strategy to ensure the security of next generation mobile telecommunications systems and infrastructure in the United States and to assist allies and strategic partners in maximizing the security of next generation mobile telecommunications systems, infrastructure, and software, and for other purposes.” To this end, Congress proposes a two-prong approach.  

First, an inter-governmental group comprised of key agencies will be formed including the FCC, Dept. of Commerce, Homeland Security, National Intelligence, Attorney General, the Dept. of State, the Dept. of Energy, and the Dept. of Defense to assist the White House in developing a strategy addressing the provisions of the law related to the security of next generation network. The strategy is to be called the “National Strategy to Secure 5G and Next Generation Wireless Communications.” In addition, the group will: (1) assess options to protect the competitiveness of U.S. companies; (2) to assist U.S. allies with technical expertise to maximize security; (3) to develop plans to promote “responsible global development and deployment” of 5G and next generations wireless networks; and (4) in the promotion of “responsible development,” consider efforts to enable robust international engagement and leadership in the development of international standards.

Second, in parallel to the abovementioned network security, the law instructs the White House to develop and submit to Congress an implementation plan for strategies to address a whole host of related items.  Several issues named in the law include: (1) a detailed assessment of potential threats and vulnerabilities posed by 5G networks and methods to address these vulnerabilities; (2) the identification and assessment of the global competitiveness and vulnerabilities of U.S. manufacturers and suppliers of (5G and beyond wireless) communications equipment; (3) the development of a plan for engaging with communications equipment providers (and other) to encourage maximizing their participation in standards setting organizations; and (4) a plan for research and development by the Federal Government, in partnership with trusted suppliers and allies, to reach and maintain U.S. leadership in 5G and beyond (wireless) systems.  

The recommendations and findings stemming from both of these efforts (“the reports”) are due back to Congress around the September 2020 timeframe for further consideration.  At that time, we will either learn how the USG proposes to implement these actions or we’ll see a request for additional time. Only time will tell at this point.  The 180-days given by Congress to complete these actions is considered aggressive.  
